champion spin bowler Muthiah Muralitharan in Moorabbin (south of Melbourne) last Saturday night. 
Darren Lehmann was Shafted by the ICC
Lehmann waited until he thought he was in private to blow off steam. A combination of thin walls, accidents of socio-cultural background and ill-chosen invective has put his career in jeopardy, just as he was in the cusp of setting it in stone. Jon Cocks believes Lehmann was harshly dealt with....find out why! 
Previous Winners of the Cricket World Cup
Find out which team won in any particular year of the Cricket World Cup. Includes winning team, margins, venues and final scores.

 Goodwin Backs Zimbabwe - World Cup - Exclusive
Murray Goodwin has urged the Australians and others to tour strife-torn Zimbabwe despite the continuing political and financial instability which has brought his country-of-birth to its knees. 
World Cup Dark Horse - West Indies
West Indies cricket remains decidedly average, at best, and still suffers the effect of years of mismanagement and hubristic complacency. To suggest the West Indies are serious World Cup contenders would be farcical, but to ignore their potential to take home the trophy could be fatal folly. 

 Mugabe Courting Cricket Embargo
As debate rages about a possible World Cup boycott of Zimbabwe, Robert Mugabe, the man who stole Zimbabwe, this week talked about forbidding the English and Australian cricket teams from entering Zimbabwe. 

 Zimbabwe World Cup Boycott is a Moral Imperative
Join with Justin Lichterman as he tells us why the ICC should boycott playing Cricket World Cup matches in “Mugabeland,” Zimbabwe.


The Next Big Thing - Monde Zondeki (RSA)
The twenty-year old paceman plays domestic cricket for Border, together with fellow Xhosa Makhaya Ntini, and was included in the national squad facing off against Sri Lanka to learn more about the National set up and to work extensively with the National coach Eric Simons and assistant Corrie van Zyl. Zondeki made his limited overs International debut in Bloemfontein after South Africa wrapped up the five match series 3-1 in Kimberley.
 Adelaide Test Experience
