Paynter left his hospital bed to bat for England in the Bodyline series; Trescothick left his team to fight on without him. Of course the result was that Andrew Flintoff took charge to such an effect that the Test series was drawn against all the odds. 
What happened in the one-day series was purely the result of the devastating injury problems England suffered. I refuse to take any notice of those matches. 
The scales were too heavily weighted in India's favour. 
Anyway, the kindly English reporters left Trescothick alone to sort out what they assumed to be marital concerns and when the team returned home it was all forgotten. 
Sadly, the public relations people stuck their oar in again and left Trescothick to claim he had been suffering from a virus. Once more the loudest protest was from the ghost of Mr. Paynter. 
I used to train young journalists and I can tell you I would have been annoyed if one of those 16-year-olds had failed to ask Trescothick about the contrast between his "virus" and the ECB's tale of "personal problems." 
Ian Ward, first class opening bat and work-in-progress journalist, did not think to make that point during a television interview and more tongues chattered. 
Three days later I was at a dinner attended by a man soaked in cricket knowledge, by several men on the fringe of county administration and a couple of international athletes. They also wanted to know: What is the Trescothick thing all about? 
I cannot give you anything but guess work. I believe Trescothick already faced a tough tour as the most consistent batsman when he heard that he would have to lead the team in the Test and one-day series as well. He probably had a virus or at least a debilitating cold and then he received bad news from home. 
Whatever that was hardly matters. It was the straw that broke his back and, in the midst of a minor breakdown, he could take no more. He fled. 
As I write he is batting like his old self. Class is permanent, the cricketers love to trumpet, and he will turn on the run machine again soon. But dare England trust him to stay the course, for instance, in Australia next winter? 
Remember, they have the recent example of Graham Thorpe to sway their thinking. Thorpe, who was as much as Trescothick the rock to whom England were moored, left India when his marriage troubles loomed. 
The ICC Trophy, the Ashes series, the one-dayers in Australia and the World Cup make the next 10 months historic and Trescothick ought to be in the thick of the battle. 
