Does he want success enough to drive himself into every skirmish? Can he face every tough match with fire in his belly? Or, as the selectors must suspect, will he want to go home whenever difficulties surface? 
He ought to be the keystone of the side, England's most prolific run-scorer, averaging 45 in Tests and 40 in one-dayers, an inspiration to the youngsters, the reliable leader when Vaughan is injured, ill or tired. 
Instead he is a star set on an uncertain course across the heavens. 
Can David Graveney, the sympathetic chairman of the selectors, and Duncan Fletcher, the coach with the confidence of the whole team, and Vaughan, his friend and former opening partner, trust this man who turned and flew? 
Or are England better off with Alistair Cook aged 21 with no wife and family to crease his brow? 
Trescothick ought to be the first name on the team sheet, not imaging that Cook can overtake him. Instead he will be the subject of a thousand headlines, the first name to be debated in the selection process. 
He must be told. England need him but they also need a guarantee that he is fully committed to the cause. 
Once that is settled Trescothick can be chosen for the coming winter tours and England can consider a more vital aspect of modern touring. 
How can they ensure that in this overcrowded calendar with its back-to-back Tests, its regular supply of money-earning one-day matches and its difficult travel schedule their young professionals do not burn out? 
It must be true that they are all suffering from exhaustion. Every England player says so, Adam Gilchrist said the Australians would be burnt out by the World Cup before he began a four-month holiday and the powers that be are indulging in earnest debate. 
But please; just tell me this. Why do teams in the sub-continent not complain about their tiredness even though they play more often than most? 
And why, when I sat next to David Shepherd at a tribute dinner the other night did this 18st, 65-year-old man not grumble or whinge or weep bitter tears about his days in 40 degrees? 
Rather he wished he was back on the circuit, although he thought 55 not 65 was the right age for an umpire to retire. Perhaps he is just made of sterner stuff. 
