As Mahendra Singh Dhoni adjusted his helmet straps and prepared to head to the middle, Greg Chappell asked him if he thought he could see it home. The asking rate was climbing towards seven an over with 99 needed, but there was no trepidation in Dhoni's voice as he said yes. "Will you be there at the end?" asked Chappell. Again, the reply was in the affirmative. "Just give me ten balls to play myself in," said Dhoni. "If I'm still there then, I'll be there till the finish." 
Dhoni eked out four from the first 10 balls that he faced at the Gaddafi Stadium. Then, Umar Gul pitched one on a length and watched bemused as it was whiplashed to the cover fence. A lone shot can seldom change much - unless we're talking of grassy knolls and President Kennedy - but that one devastating arc described by Dhoni's bat would resonate through the rest of a series that was then poised at 1-1. He finished with 72 from 46 balls, transforming an improbable chase into a romp. Yuvraj Singh batted beautifully at the other end for his 79, but the climactic stages were all about Dhoni and his gift for unorthodox but chillingly effective strokeplay. 
Sitting by the backwaters in Kochi, Chappell's face breaks into a half-smile as he remembers that, and vignettes from other chases. Not a man given to hyperbole, he can get animated when he talks about Dhoni. "Who've you ever seen hit an attempted yorker for six before?" he asks. "I don't know anyone in the world who could pick a ball out of the blockhole and hit it for six. It comes from his having played tennis-ball cricket; he's an awesome talent." 
In Dhoni's success can be seen the underlying reasons for India's one-day renaissance. Until a couple of seasons ago, Dhoni and others like Kerala's S Sreesanth hadn't even played much against top-notch Indian opposition, leave alone the titans of world cricket. Both Dhoni and Sreesanth played for Plate teams in the Ranji Trophy, and their development at the highest level has been nothing short of staggering. "They've been challenged with things they've never seen before," says Chappell. "You don't get three international-class fast bowlers in a Plate team. People say England were a weakened side, but the bowling attack was still solid." 
Mastering the chase was akin to reinventing the wheel for a team that had appeared clueless in ODIs following the surge to the World Cup final in 2003. With all due apologies to Hansie Cronje's side, India were the quintessential chokers - one outright win in 15 finals under Sourav Ganguly - and the motto when chasing usually appeared to be All Fall Down. 
Something needed to be done, and Chappell and Dravid worked on the premise that the best way to overcome fear was to confront it. The opposition were asked to bat even when conditions cried out for India to make first use of the pitch. As Chappell puts it: "The only way we were going to be successful was to face the demons." 
