Adelaide Test Experience
Join with Jon Cocks as he does his “autopsy” on the second Ashes Test Match in Adelaide. If you haven’t been to a test match in Adelaide, this is a must read article. Written only as “Cocksy” could. Includes a wrap up of all the best South Aussie wines to drink and the correct moment for consumption. Should it be prawns, oysters or a delicious crayfish for lunch? Jon even provides an excellent guide to the before, during and stumps entertainment. 
UCBSA Gets it Right
As international cricket tours become increasingly condensed, the scheduling of warm-up and practice matches is ever more complicated and important. For the coming World Cup season, the United Cricket Board of South Africa has done a superb job balancing tour schedules with quality practice opposition for visiting teams. 
Preparing Your Cricket Bat - Knocking In
Almost all new cricket bats require knocking in before use. Knocking in, is the process of hardening and conditioning of the blades' surface. 
From Backyard to Baggy Green
After 12 months of extensive research, consultation and analysis by the sports’ many stakeholders, the Australian Cricket Board recently released their strategic plan for Aussie cricket titled: From Backyard to Baggy Green. 
Sehwag the Key to ICC Final
For Sri Lanka to guarantee glory in tonight's re-run of the ICC Champions Trophy Final at Premadasa Stadium, they must ensure they shut down Indian batting dynamo Virender Sehwag. 
The Age of Gupte
Long before the achievements of Australian “sheikh of tweak” Shane Warne were written into the anals of cricket history, a legend of Indian cricket named Subhashchandra Gupte, so dominated the arena of spin bowlers during the 1950’s, these years were later to be remembered by Indian cricket historians and fans alike, as the “age of Gupte.” 
Aussie Young Guns Lose the Plot
The only downside to the demolition job performed on New Zealand by the Aussies during their first round encounter in the Champions Trophy tournament, was the way in which both Brett Lee and Shane Watson, appeared to completely lose the plot in cleaning up the New Zealand tail. 

 Ambushing the Players Freedom
Sohaib Alvi gives us his unique perspective on the affects the current “ICC Sponsorship Crisis” is likely to have on the capacity of players to earn an income from lucrative sponsorship dollars. 
