Plans for Cronje Memorial
Hansie Cronje is to be honoured with a memorial constructed from parts taken from the aircraft in which he was killed. 
Kenya Series a Shamble
Can Kenya seriously be saying they are interested in obtaining Test status from the ICC, considering their latest approach to the on again, off again series between Australia and Pakistan, which by all appearances seems forever doomed? 
Kapil Dev - Indian Cricketer of the Century
The man with a grin almost as big as the subcontinent itself, has been named Indian Cricketer of the Century, as adjudged by a panel of experts from Wisden.
 Cricket Fans Gunned Down
It's a very risky pastime nowadays being a cricket fan, especially if you are gathered around a radio and living in Kashmir and Jammu, a region under Indian control, located between Islamic Pakistan and Hindu dominated India. 
Morocco Cup 2002
After recently receiving the go ahead from the ICC to hold international cricket matches, Tangier is set to host it’s first major cricket series with the inaugural Morocco Cup. The tri-nation series involving Pakistan, South Africa and Sri Lanka, is expected to become an annual event hosted by Federation Royale Morocaine de Cricket (FRMC).
Colin "Funky” Miller Retires
Colin Reid Miller, the most colourful man in world cricket and known for his outrageously dyed hair, has announced his retirement from all first-class competition. Miller, who was recently axed from the Victorian State team, obviously knew the writing was on the wall so far as being picked up by another team competing at the top level was concerned and decided to retire from competition rather than continue with the frustration of looking for a team who would find his services of value at the age of 38 years. 
Footy Fever Buries Cricket
A typical Melbourne day was the setting for the opening match of the Super Challenge Series at Colonial Stadium, but it was far from a typical Melbourne crowd, who witnessed the non-event of the media touted "bowl off" between Pakistan's Shoaib Akhtar and Aussie speedster, Brett Lee. 
Credit Where Due - Hansie Cronje
The recent death of former South African Cricket Captain, Hansie Cronje, epitomises the story of how this former legendary cricketer lived the last few years of his life...in the cricket wilderness and abandoned by international cricket circles and so called friends. 
What now for Pakistan and the ICC
In the wake of the recent terrorist bombing in Karachi, most cricket nations and players are understandably uneasy about touring Pakistan. The Kiwis flew home immediately 