In the days of yore, a left-arm spinner would bowl without a mid-wicket, and an off-spinner without cover, inviting the batsmen to strike against turn. Now the field placements are becoming increasingly predictable. Former India left-arm spinner Maninder Singh holds the view that the present day spinners are being pampered on under-prepared wickets. "When they bowl on a placid pitch, they are clueless. They should bowl on hard tracks. They should learn how to give it a rip like the Australian spinners do," he says. 
Bahutule does not quite agree that all the pitches in the country are spinner-friendly. "Only in the Central Zone do we come across rank turners. Otherwise, the pitches favour the batsmen more. But I do admit that a spinner learns his craft better when the conditions are against him." 
Despite the gloomy scenario, there is a glimmer of hope. Left-arm spinner Shahbaz Nadeem has impressed in the junior ranks. How he makes the transition to first class cricket remains to be seen. The `arm ball', a vanishing delivery these days, has to be his surprise weapon. 
Piyush Chawla bristles with promise, even if his googly is more effective than his leg-spinners. He needs to be groomed carefully. Exposing him to one-day cricket at this nebulous stage of his career could prove detrimental to his growth as a spinner. Powar has bowled delightfully in the ODIs for India so far, flighting the ball and achieving the classic off-spinner's dismissal — bowling the right-handed batsmen with flighted deliveries which spin through the gate to rearrange woodwork. He has the variations and the heart. Crucially, he has spent considerable time in the domestic first class circuit and has been able to adjust to ODI cricket, without changing the texture of his bowling. 
Murali Kartik has the ability but then he didn't have, as Maninder points out, the backing of his previous captains Sachin Tendulkar and Sourav Ganguly who were fine players of left-arm spin. 
Rahul Dravid has more faith in the left-armer, but Kartik finds himself in the injured list. 
The selectors have a critical role in the development of spinners in the country. The captains too have a vital part to play. A spinner is twice the bowler if he has the skipper supporting him. 
Most importantly, India needs to prepare hard, bouncy tracks that will not only make our batsmen and pacemen better cricketers but also encourage quality spin bowling. And it will help if budding spinners are kept away from one-day cricket. 
