International cricketers are going through a terrible phase. The ICC reckons it is beneath itself to even consider the appeal by the Federation of International Players' Association (FICA) that the number of matches be reduced. And finally, it has been threatened by the FICA President, Tim May, that if the matter is not resolved, the players would go on strike. 
Never have we seen such a scenario before. How serious Tim May is about the threat only time will tell, but the players are getting the support of the majority of former international cricketers all over the world. 
People have the right to express their own opinions and some former players did so by slamming the players. But this has become a one-sided debate, as most of the players from the teams in the subcontinent, who have been playing non-stop cricket, haven't openly countered the arguments of the former players. 
The reason is that the players are effectively gagged on several issues because of the clauses in their central-retainer contract. It is not that they do not have counter-arguments, but rather that they do not have the freedom to express those points without risking violation of the contract and the termination of their careers. Unfortunately, their enforced silence will also have a detrimental effect on their performances and their careers. 
There are two ways of looking at the problem of playing too many matches with its effect on the quality of a professional. It could be said that since the players have signed the contract with the board, they can't object to the number of matches played. But the flipside is that if it's going to affect their future, surely the problem needs to be addressed. 

Unlike any other field game, cricket is basically a mental one. This means that a surfeit of matches puts an international cricketer's thought-processes in a rut. Physically the body of a cricketer is not taxed as much as that of a top quality footballer who plays nothing less than 70 high pressure games in a season. International cricketers are expected to play a maximum of 15 Tests and 30 ODIs per year. 
People who are not willing to accept a cricketer's plight say that in a Test match no cricketer is on the ground for all the five days, whereas a footballer is running for 90 minutes. A batsman might get out to the first ball and would be resting for two days while his side is piling up a huge score. Similarly, not all the bowlers will be bowling 20 overs a day. While fielding, not every player would be running all the time. 
