Cricket is a team sport played between two teams of eleven players on each side. It is a bat-and-ball game played on a roughly elliptical grass field, in the centre of which is a hard, flat strip of ground 22 yards (20.12 m) long, called a pitch.

A player from one team (the bowler) propels a hard, fist-sized leather ball from one set of wooden stumps, called a wicket, towards the other. A player from the opposing team (the batsman) attempts to defend the wicket from the ball with a wooden cricket bat. Another batsman (the partner of the defending player) stands in an inactive role near the bowler's wicket.
If the batsman hits the ball with his bat, he may run to the other wicket, exchanging places with his partner. This scores a run. While the batting team attempts to score as many runs as it can, members of the bowling team gather the ball and return it to either wicket. If the ball that is thrown by a fielder strikes a wicket while the nearest batsman is still running, the batsman is out, or "dismissed". Batsmen can also be out by other means, such as failing to defend the bowled ball from hitting the wicket, or hitting a catch to a fielder.

Once out, a batsman is replaced by the next batsman in the team. As there must always be two batsmen on the field, if and when the tenth batsman is out, the team's turn to bat (innings) is over, and the other team may bat while the first team takes the field. The innings may also be restricted to a certain number of balls. This is determined before the match, as is whether each team has one or two innings. At the end of the match, the winner is the team that has scored the most runs. However, the game may run out of time before it is finished, in which case it is a draw, even if one team is overwhelmingly winning at that point. This is sometimes surprising to those not familiar with the game, but it does add interest to one-sided games by giving the inferior team the incentive to try to achieve a draw even if they cannot win.

Cricket has been an established team sport for several centuries. It originated in its modern form in England, and is popular mainly in the present and former members of the Commonwealth. In some countries in South Asia, including India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka, cricket is by far the most popular sport. Cricket is also a major sport in England and Wales, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Zimbabwe and the English-speaking countries of the Caribbean, which are collectively known in cricketing parlance as the West Indies. It is also a prominent minor sport in countries as diverse as the Netherlands, Israel, Nepal, and Argentina (see also: International Cricket Council).

