However, what they tend to overlook is the kind of travelling the cricketers are made to undertake in different conditions. If the travel schedules are properly planned, cricketers too would be keen to turn out for their country. Any international sportsman takes pride in performing for the country but if nonsensical travelling is not giving them enough time to keep themselves mentally and physically fresh, the quality of the game will definitely suffer. 
Those who are complaining are the fast bowlers. What Brett Lee said was supported by Michael Holding. Fast bowlers need to train continuously. If they are to play international matches every week in different places, where is the time for them to train? It's this lack of training that is making fast bowlers unfit. 
There is hardly any time for the fast bowlers to recover. Tendulkar, with a cyst in the shoulder, could field but had he been a fast bowler would he have played the Test with that cyst? 
Questioning the patriotic pride of international cricketers is not the right approach. The ideal way would be for the ICC Cricket Committee to invite leading international fast bowlers and listen to their problems. Why would any international cricketer object to the number of matches played if it's not going to affect his performance? This is the point the ICC needs to realise. 
The game needs the players as much as the players need the game. Instead of fighting the battle through the media, skippers should voice their grievances in the annual international captains' meeting. And if the majority of them feel the need to make the game more interesting by suggesting solutions to the existing problems, the ICC should agree to them. 
And a question to those who feel that everything is right with the international cricket schedule. Will such a schedule ever give a chance to these international cricketers to play domestic cricket? Dravid has played 100 Tests in 10 years, but in the same period he has played only 11 Ranji Trophy matches. In fact, from the year 2000 to 2004, he didn't get to play a single Ranji match. 
The ICC may be the parent body, but the way things are going players have the right to feel they are being treated like slaves. This has to change. The ICC needs to understand that its relevance is only because of the players. 
These players do the hard work that brings in the big money, while the ICC ignores their concerns and problems, and zealously guards its coffers to ensure that the income continues to flow into it. The ICC must remember that without the players its coffers and its clout will dry up. 
