Former India leg-spinner Sairaj Bahutule puts the contemporary spinner's view in perspective. "They are using such heavy bats. Even a mis-hit travels for a six. It is hard going for the spinners," he says. 
Then he talks about the ball. "You see, we use the SG balls here, but when we travel abroad we use the Kookaburra balls whose seam is less prominent and kind of wears out in 25 to 30 overs. So when young spinners travel with the under-19 or the `A' team abroad, they find it hard to cope." 
Former India all-rounder and now Director of the Chennai-based MAC Spin Foundation, Robin Singh, believes some of the captains are to be blamed. "The spinners, even in the first division league here, are scared to flight. If they are hit for a couple of boundaries, they are removed from the attack. There should also not be so much one-day cricket at schools. It affects the way our young spinners approach their bowling." 
Ashok Mankad, former India cricketer and now the all-India batting coach of the National Cricket Academy, agrees. "There is more emphasis on restriction than guile these days. And this is the direct consequence of limited overs cricket. More and more captains are relying on pacemen." 
Ajit Wadekar was certainly a skipper who banked on spinners. A wily strategist, he led India to stirring back-to-back Test series triumphs in West Indies and England in the early 1970s. Wadekar focusses on a key issue — the quality of close-in catching. 
India had match-winning spinners in the 1960s and the 1970s, but they were also backed by some tremendous fielders around the batsmen. Somebody like Eknath Solkar could gobble up half chances at silly point or short leg. Now, these opportunities earned by the bowler, go unrewarded. 
Says Wadekar, "This is again due to the influence of one-day cricket. We see brilliant athletes, but their reflexes have not been conditioned to pluck these chances. We do not have specialist close-in fielders in Ranji Trophy, why talk about the Indian team." Wadekar feels that the advent of one-day cricket has had an adverse effect on the variety of the spinners. "Erapalli Prasanna had this beautiful floater, he used to have the shiny side outside, hold it in the seam and would give the ball direction. It may not have been a doosra but it used to be a deadly delivery that would hang in the air and move away from the batsmen." 
