Spin bowling faces a crisis in the country. There are serious questions being asked about the depth of spin in the land of the immortal quartet. And the answers are not easily available. 
Pacemen are increasingly dominating the Indian domestic scene. The spinners, the emerging ones, have hard days of learning and toil ahead. Can they survive the ordeal? 
India still has the most successful contemporary spin duo — Anil Kumble and Harbhajan Singh. But does the nation have worthy replacements? Two names are currently doing the rounds — Ramesh Powar and Piyush Chawla — while the injured Murali Kartik waits in the wings. Beyond the three, there are not too many who inspire confidence. 
Compare the scenario with what existed in India during the 1960s and the 1970s where the likes of Rajinder Goel and Padmakar Shivalkar, two left-arm bowlers of exceptional ability, could not break into the Test XI. 
Someone as accomplished as Dilip Doshi — rated by Vivian Richards as one of the finest left-armers he has faced — won an India cap only in the later stages of his career and V. V. Kumar, a creative leg-spinner of rare skills, played just a handful of Tests. 
Others like Uday Joshi, Sarkar Talwar, S. Vasudevan and Kanwaljeet Singh would have stood a fighting chance of playing international cricket had they been bowling in this era. In any case, they would have been destructive in the domestic circuit. 
Various reasons have been put forward to explain the decline of spin bowling. They range from the nature of pitches to the influence of one-day cricket, from batsmen using heavy bats to captains displaying more faith in pace. 
The wickets for domestic cricket have certainly stunted the growth of spinners. The `made to order' surfaces that start turning from day one have affected the spinners' thought process. 
Some operate in a fashion that is monotonous, without the subtlety in flight and deception. On pitches that assist them, they just have to land the ball in the right areas and the wicket does the rest. 
Others attempt fancy deliveries without mastering the basics. They err in length and line and struggle to bowl six deliveries on the trot (India's frontline spinners too suffer from this failing on occasions). Elementary lessons such as a left-arm spinner bowling from close to the wicket and an off-spinner, from wide off the crease, are forgotten. And flawed bowling action results from wrong technique. 
On pitches favouring the batsmen, these spinners invariably struggle. Here clever use of the crease and changes in trajectory are primary requirements. A Bishan Singh Bedi or an Erapalli Prasanna would set the batsman up on placid tracks; getting the batsman to drive at flighted deliveries and then snare them with subtle variations. 
