Cricket Feature Articles
Archived cricket articles and cricket stories, which have previously featured at Abc of Cricket, many of which are submissions from cricket writers and cricket fans worldwide. A variety of different topics including cricket history, issues affecting cricket, personal opinions and many more cricket related topics.
Wither, Cricket? - The Survival of Test Cricket
If the survival of cricket is now highly dependent on revenue raised from the World Cup, cricket is at the brink. The Test match must be instated as the meat of the game, or at least enjoy an equal share of power with international limited-overs cricket. But it requires imagination, diplomacy and commitment from the ICC and home boards around the world; new ways of thinking, and the right reasons. 
Touring Downunder India Style
For those of you unfamiliar with the goings-on of an International Cricket Series Downunder, Venkatesh Govindarajan gives you a rundown on what to expect during the current Series between Australia and India.

Cricketing Surnames, Very Proper Common Nouns
Of all the men (alive and deceased) who have represented their respective countries in the international arena right from when the first ball was bowled in the very first Test Match held in Melbourne, there are over 270 players who have/had surnames which are ‘very common’ Proper Nouns!

 The Moxham Revenge
With the assistance of the great Fardeep Singh, revenge was a certainty for the boys from East Moxham. Or was it? 
The Man With The Magic Bat
One minute this cricket bat is there and the next it’s gone. A spine tingling story from the pavilion of the Scoving Village Cricket Club. Is this story fact or fiction? You be the judge! 
Waugh’s Faith Rewarded
Steve Waugh’s persistence with Hayden and Langer has resulted in one of the greatest opening combinations in recent history. The opening duo has rewarded the faith of their skipper many times over. 
Dear Mr Warne
Sidharth Monga writes an open letter to Shane Warne regarding his recent troubles. Obviously prepared to forgive Shane’s “indiscretions,” Sidharth advises Warne to concentrate on his cricket to quieten his detractors.
