Talent doesn't guarantee success in sport, business or life. After all, it is but a gift from your parents. Just cast your mind back to your school days and ask yourself, `Why didn't the great sportsmen and women and scholars make it to the top?' 
Inevitably, only a very few make the grade after school for great talent will only take you to a certain level, but to go higher you need other facets, such as common sense, the ability to accept the right advice, concentration and an enormous desire to be the best. 
Talent is at its best up to about the age of 18. This is basically all that is needed to do well in sport and in the classrooms then. After that the going gets much harder as you pit yourself against more mature people. Most of them may not be as naturally gifted as you are, but they would have learnt their trade and know how to succeed. 
There is much conjecture in Australia about the future of Michael Clarke. He began his Test career with a bang. The first against India, on debut, on a spinning wicket was a gem. His second against New Zealand was equally impressive and his thunderous, audacious strokeplay caught the media's attention and set the pattern for his future batting. Unfortunately, since that Test he has gone without a century in 25 innings and has only averaged 25.30 in that time. 
To me, and I have a huge respect for Clarke's batting, his lack of success is due to his inability at this stage to understand his strengths and weaknesses. He bats at one pace, full blast. He has to be more circumspect in his judgement of the right ball to hit. He tries to over-hit most attacks and this doesn't give him the time to get in the right spot for the appropriate shot. Too often, when seeking power, he falls off his strokes and is not over the ball when making contact. 
It is said that Clarke can play every shot in the book. This is right, but can he execute them with the precision and technique required to ensure that they are safe? At this stage he cannot, and this is the reason for his inconsistent performances. 
Every batsman or a bowler at some time and on a regular basis must examine his own method. At this stage I don't think Clarke has appraised his batting style and decided on the best way to make the most of his undoubted talent. He is still an 