Wigan might have got a 4-0 bashing at the hands of Manchester United earlier this season, but I don't think the memory of that will stop them playing their usual open, high-tempo game...which could make this a cracking game for the neutrals among us.
I'm not sure Paul Jewell knows a different way to play and why should he? They've had a fantastic season - pretty much safe and in a major cup final - and anything else they get from now on is a bonus. Why would you want to go and do anything but try to win it?
A few years ago a team like Wigan might have gone into a final with United trying to minimise the damage and not be humiliated. But United don't frighten anybody the way they used to do, and Wigan will believe they can win this game playing the open, expansive tactics that have got them into the top half of the table.

In recent years we've seen Southampton and Millwall both going into finals and making them dull, dull affairs because they've been scared of humiliation. We won't see that from Wigan on Sunday.
In that front two of Jason Roberts and Henri Camara they have everything to trouble the United defence, with that combination of power and pace that defenders absolutely hate. Whatever happens, they will know they've been in a game after 90 minutes up against that duo.
They may not be the best finishers in the world - certainly not in comparison with their counterparts at the other end - but what they do have is a tremendous physicality. Sol Campbell will not forget his battle with Roberts earlier this season, and he's by no means the only centre-half to come a cropper against him this season.
Couple that with a midfield that works its socks off and you have to fancy Wigan to cause United problems. The likes of Graham Kavanagh, Jimmy Bullard and Paul Scharner might not be the most talented players in the Premiership, but they are amongst the most hard-working.
I was impressed with them at Tottenham on Sunday, when they took the game to Spurs, and I shall expect the same kind of energy against United at Cardiff.
It's good to see Jewell being linked with the job at Newcastle this week as it is to see any young English managers being considered for the Premiership's biggest jobs. The game really needs to encourage them by giving them opportunites. I'm sick of the attitude that you need a foreign name to become big-club boss.
We have some fantastic young managers in this country, and in Jewell and Alan Pardew we have seen two rookies who were prepared to mix it with the big clubs, to play their kind of football, and they have reaped the rewards.
