In comparison, what can you say about Birmingham City after their 7-0 mauling by Liverpool?
I saw Steve Bruce after the match and I've never seen him more devastated. To be honest, I just didn't know what to say to him. It felt a bit like intruding on private grief. It was a horrendous evening for everyone associated with the club.
Where do you go from here? Unfortunately the answer is Manchester United on Sunday afternoon. And then it's Chelsea. It's an incredible challenge for a club to face in such circumstances.
They've been hit hard by injuries and I have every sympathy with Steve Bruce on that front. The quality and quantity of players they’ve lost would hurt any side. I know Brucie hates trotting out his injuries as an excuse and, of course, the fans don't want to hear excuses. 
Football is a fickle business. 18 months ago the fans were urging him not to leave for Newcastle and calling on the board to give him a job for life. Now they're calling for his head. But that's football. It's a results-based industry.
Steve Bruce knows this and also knows that he might not be in a job in a couple of weeks' time. He faces a huge test of character and the first thing he must do is lift himself. Seeing him on Wednesday night brought to mind the old question of 'who motivates the motivator?'. The answer is that nobody can except Steve Bruce himself. He really has to dig deep right now.
In the next few weeks he will learn plenty about both himself and his players. And what he will learn - especially about himself - will, I think shape the rest of his managerial career.

On the subject of injuries, it appears that the Arsenal squad is finally returning to full health. Robin van Persie made his comeback last weekend and Sol Campbell is expected to figure against Portsmouth.
Their return ahead of Tuesday's Champions League quarter-final with Juventus gives Arsene Wenger one of those 'nice headaches' that all managers desire.
Arsenal progressed against Real Madrid playing five men in midfielder and just Thierry Henry up front. In the Premeirship, however, they've reverted to a 4-4-2 in recent weeks with Emmanuel Adebayor partnering Henry. But Adebayor is ineligible for the Champs League, leaving Arsene with an interesting dilemma.
Will he recall Van Persie alongside Henry on Tuesday night? I'd be very surprised if he did. I suspect that Arsene will decide to stick with the formula that worked so well against Madrid, leaving the Dutchman on the bench.
It will be a tough challenge for the Gunners but don't write them off. Juventus are very much beatable and it would be no surprise to me if Arsenal progress.
