Everton will undoubtedly finish lower in the Premiership this season than last, but Toffees fans should be happier this May than last May because for the first time in 15 years they could have managed two consecutive top-ten finishes.
The bane of every Evertonian's life recently has been that every great season has been followed by a relegation fight. That's been the pattern and it's been a frustrating one. If Everton finish this season in the top ten they will have bucked the trend and proved that for the first time in a long time they're moving forward.
It certainly won't be a letdown of a season if they go from fourth to tenth - Everton fans should be feeling upbeat going into the future as they finally have a stability and a confidence at the club.
That was epitomised in Bill Kenwright's loyalty towards David Moyes. Too many chairmen can get itchy trigger fingers when fans are starting to get restless, but Kenwright had faith in the manager who had taken them into Europe. It reminded me of the calls for Howard Kendall's head before the mid-Eighties success that Evertonians can only dream about now.
What's the difference? A bit of luck and a lot of confidence. Players like Mikel Arteta and James Beattie are looking like the footballers we know they can be, and it's not because they're working any harder, but because they go out onto the pitch believing they are going to win. Couple that with a bit of luck and that's pretty much the recipe for success in football.
It obviously also helps that they have a striker in form, with Beattie looking like the Beattie of old that made him hot property at Southampton. There's still a long way to go before he repays that transfer fee, but he certainly looks fitter and sharper than the Beattie of a year ago.
He has probably left it a bit late as far as the World Cup goes but at his best he's a much better option that Peter Crouch, in my opinion. He offers more goals and more ability. The only thing he doesn't offer more of is inches, and even though he's not 6'7" he's probably a more powerful header of the ball.
On Saturday Everton face another of my old teams Aston Villa, who beat them 4-0 on Boxing Day but who will be in a different place confidence-wise after effectively seeing their season ended by Man City on Tuesday night.
For much of the game against City, as for many games this season, they were second to everything - outheaded, outfought and out-tackled. I listened to the feedback from the fans and they were disappointed with the attitude and the commitment of the players. And those things should not be in question when there's an FA Cup quarter-final place at stake.
