Testing people's mentality to cope with physical play is part of football - you exploit a weakness in that department in the same way you would target a weak left-back or a vulnerability in the air.
They did exactly what they needed to do to stay up last season - making themselves tough to beat and carving out a reputation as thugs in the process. But the Blackburn side we see now has added an attacking verve while keeping that uncompromising and physical approach.
The day that signalled the change for me was at Old Trafford in September. I'd seen them two weeks before at Bolton and it was an awful game, with Rovers playing five across the middle and showing no interest in being creative. I thought 'here we go again, same old Blackburn'.
Then they went to Old Trafford and played 4-4-2, won that game and have played two up front pretty much every week since then. They have been rewarded with results, and results breed confidence. What we now see is a Rovers side who not only fear nobody, but also believe they can beat anyone.
And they've done that without having a real goalscorer up front. Craig Bellamy's a threat but is never prolific, while I'm not sure how many Shefki Kuqi will score at this level. But what they have got is people chipping in from all over the park, particularly Morten Gamst Pedersen.
I think he has been one of the revelations of the season - he has been fantastic. He gives them genuine speed, genuine width and a genuine goal threat. My only fear would be just how long they can keep hold of him, as there will be clubs in the Premiership and across Europe who will be looking on with admiration. Hopefully for Blackburn they will secure European football and give themselves a chance of keeping him.
THE other really in-form team at the moment is West Ham. They lost three in a row over Christmas, and many other promoted teams might well have collapsed. But all credit to Alan Pardew and his players, because they have come back with five straight wins in the Premiership and the cup.
One of the keys to their success is that they don't chop and change - they have a team and pretty much stick to it. Continuity can be a major factor in a team's success, it's no coincidence that the Hammers' bad patch came when Danny Gabiddon was out injured and they had to change their defence.
But it's his partner Anton Ferdinand who has impressed me most this season, especially against Arsenal on Wednesday. It was an interesting night, with old Sol Campbell at one end having a nightmare and young Ferdinand at the other doing a very good job of keeping Thierry Henry relatively quiet. It will have been an interesting evening for the watching Sven.
