I haven't been this excited about a Sunday afternoon's football for a long time - there are three massive games, with Liverpool v Bolton the meat in a mouthwatering sandwich of Chelsea v West Ham and Man United v Arsenal. It all builds up beautifully to what could be a fantastic final game between the Premiership's two in-form teams.
Of course, this could have been the weekend that Chelsea were going to win the title against West Ham, but the cat has been put amongst the pigeons and it's now anything but a victory parade. Chelsea are still overwhelming favourites for the title, but it will certainly make it interesting to say the least if they don't beat West Ham on Sunday.
For all the talk of a slump though, even if Chelsea continued with their supposedly poor form they would still win the title. And even though United have won their last eight games, what are the chances of them replicating that kind of record until the end of the season? That said, I would love to see United close that gap to about four points before the two teams meet.
It would be good for neutrals to see Chelsea's credentials as champions and Jose Mourinho's as a manager really tested. They were not challenged in the Premiership last season and have had it pretty much all their own way this season - we haven't really seen them under pressure in the league and it will be interesting to see how the players and Mourinho cope.
The only question is about the challenge set by West Ham, who have been in Dubai all week sunning themselves. How ready will they be to take on the champions? You have to hope that a London derby will see them raise their game and forget the rigours of the season and the distraction of an FA Cup semi-final, because the rest of the country would like to see them give Chelsea a game.
Everything - the Hammers' other priorities and Chelsea's home record in particular - suggest that the Blues will win. But then we all expected them to beat Birmingham last week and what we got was a performance lacking in any real edge.
Some people are blaming the tiredness of players like John Terry and Frank Lampard for Chelsea's lack of oomph, but I think tiredness is just too readily used as an excuse. Nobody is saying that Man United or Arsenal's players are tired, because they're winning games. I don't think we have to look for explanations, just accept that teams cannot steamroll the opposition for a whole season, the Premiership is just too difficult for that to happen.
We might not get a football feast from Chelsea's clash with West Ham, but I expect one from the game at Old Trafford. I don't think we'll see a goal-glut, but I expect to see some glorious passages of play from the two best footballing sides in the country at the moment.
Both these teams have found some fantastic form - certainly their best of the season by some margin. They're both playing natural, attacking football, and it's particularly good to see United abandon a five-man midfield in favour of free-flowing, aggressive tactics.
