Steve McClaren's side fell behind when Argentine Matias Delgado beat Mark Schwarzer after his long-range shot took a wicked bounce. 

Midfielder David Degen then raced through to double the advantage with the last kick of the half. 

Chris Riggott was unlucky not to score when his header hit the bar. 

Boro went into the tie confident they might be able to win only the second major trophy in the club's history after beating favourites Roma in the previous round. 

But, despite the absence of big European names in the last eight, any thoughts they would be able to steamroller Christian Gross's side were quickly extinguished. 

The Swiss champions have not lost a league game at home for three years and that statistic should have set the alarm bells ringing before a ball had even been kicked. 

Degen should have done better after being presented with a great chance on the half hour but only had a yellow card for diving. 

  If Boro play at a high tempo in the second leg Basle won't be able to live with us 

From PA
Have your say on 606  

Basle keeper Pascal Zuberbuehler was then fortunate to see his attempt at stopping Gaizka Mendieta's shot from long range narrowly clear the bar. 

The Swiss keeper would no doubt claim the slippery ball made the situation look more precarious than it actually was. 

And Schwarzer would probably use the same excuse when Basle took the lead three minutes before the interval. 

There seemed little danger when Delgado picked up the ball on the left wing but, after firing a shot from 35 yards, the ball skipped off the surface right in front of the Australian keeper and left him helpless. 

 
Basle's David Degen celebrates his important goal 

The Swiss side then doubled their advantage with the last kick of the first half when Degen raced through to slide past Schwarzer after Eduardo had shown great vision the release him down the right. 

Riggott almost put Boro back into the tie when his header went over off the top of the bar. 

But the visitors had their own scrape with the woodwork when Delgado's free-kick hit the corner of the post and bar. 

Riggott, though, was in the right place to clear off the line when Scott Chipperfield was presented with a chance to put the tie beyond doubt. 

But Boro's miserable night was confirmed when Emanuel Pogatetz had to be carried off after breaking his nose in an aerial challenge. 

