In 1995, the European Court of Justice ruled in favour of Belgian footballer Jean-Marc Bosman. Now known as the 'Bosman Ruling', it stated that when a player was out of contract with his club, the club was no longer entitled to a transfer fee, and the player was free to sign for anyone who wanted him. Following on from this ruling, a limitation on the number of 'foreign' players was also lifted. Previously, a club could only field three foreign players in UEFA competitions. Nowadays, a club can field a full team of EU nationals. It can also sign players from non-EU countries, subject to the work permit laws of the country, and domestic league rules. 
This undoubtedly has lead to increased mobility for players, and while this increased job mobility is good for certain players, it does make it that much more difficult for young local players to 'make the break'. It is also one of the reasons why players’ wages and transfer fees have risen over the past decade. The clubs no longer have as strong a hold on the players, and therefore need to make it more attractive for them to stay and/or sign longer contracts. 
Similar mobility applies to managers, although in their case, they were never as restricted as the players were. Even though managers have long been moving between countries (Venables, Robson & Toshack all managed in Spain), it has stepped up in recent years. Currently the Premiership includes French, Spanish and Portuguese managers, and recently could count managers from Holland, Switzerland and Italy among its ranks. As managers moved around, they brought their own style with them. Thus when British managers moved abroad, they brought the traditional British values of hard work and physical presence with them. Conversely since Arsene Wenger took over at Arsenal, the club have played with a style and panache that, with the greatest respect, would seem completely alien to someone like Tony Adams or George Graham. 
All of which leads us to an analysis of national playing styles. Under Jack Charlton, if an Irish defender got the ball, he was instructed to kick it as far and as hard as he could. If the ball came back down with snow on it, so what? Our strikers were our first line of defence. The Irish tactic (singular) was summed up by Charlton himself, when he said we “put ‘em under pressure”, and “inflict” our style on them. We were more concerned with destroying the other team’s ability than in working on our own. Since then, we have changed dramatically. It doesn’t always work, but now we allow our creative players the latitude to pass the ball around, to take on players and (hopefully) beat them. 

At the other end of the scale, Brazil has long had a reputation for being the home of flair football. The Brazilian team of the 1970s is regarded by many as the finest football team of all time. Jairzinho, Tostao and Rivelino were all masters of their art, along with a young lad by the name of Pelé. Because of players like these, many football supporters claim Brazil as their 'second team', the one they follow when their own country has been eliminated. 
But even the great Brazilians were forced into a reality check, and changed their style. The World Cup final in 1994 was a 0-0 draw between Brazil and Italy, and was probably the dullest World Cup final in living memory. Brazil won, but only on a penalty shoot-out. In the 2002 World Cup, Brazil conceded three goals in the group stages. In the remaining 4 matches (last 16, quarter final, semi final, final) they only let in 1 goal and scored 7. Brazil has been forced to modify their cavalier approach and now place as much emphasis on a solid defence as on a flowing attack. So what’s causing these changes? Well, there are more people playing football than before. There are more countries entering international competitions. 116 countries entered the 1990 World Cup, which culminated in a rather dismal final between Argentina and Germany. The 2002 competition, eventually won by Brazil, saw 199 entrants, and FIFA currently lists 205 registered associations who have entered the 2006 World Cup, with the finals to be held in Germany. The major leagues boast players from all over the world, and these players can take what they learn with their clubs and bring it back to their national teams. 
New blood means new ideas, and the existing teams either take this into account or lose. Greece won the European Championships in 2004, having started as 50/1 outsiders. South Korea and Turkey reached the semi-finals of the 2002 World Cup, and neither would be considered giants of football. The achievements of these 'emerging nations' in a football sense are proof positive that football has more global appeal than ever before. 
Over the last couple of decades, the ownership of football clubs has also started to change. Many clubs are now quoted on stock exchanges – Manchester United and Celtic are two obvious examples. For many supporter-shareholders, profit is not paramount. They like owning shares in their own club for sentimental reasons. This is particularly relevant for emigrants. In the Celtic example, many people who have left Scotland like to have shares in Celtic in the same way that emigrants used to bring a handful of the home soil in their pockets. If your club operates as a plc., you can now own shares in it from almost anywhere in the world. 


