"I'm glad it's over because I was playing so many hours on the court and I felt a little tired today," she said after the Indian Wells final. 
"But I still feel like it was a great tournament for me." 
Watch out for understated Elena at the year's remaining Slams. The hard times will make her stronger as she aims to take the next step in her career.
Turning 50 is often a time when successful people can enjoy the fruits of their labour, reflect on their career achievements and start looking towards a comfortable retirement. 
But Europe's greatest tennis player is approaching this milestone with his finances so much in disarray that he's having to sell off his most famous trophies. 
The latest chapter in Bjorn Borg's post-tennis decline is another sad example of great sporting stars who struggle for success in their business and personal lives. 
Borg will auction off his five Wimbledon singles trophies and two of his favourite racquets through Bonham's in London in June because he wants to achieve "financial security". 
Borg said in a statement: "Obviously, it is not easy to part with the trophies that symbolize all the tremendous effort, both physically and emotionally, that it took to win Wimbledon on five occasions." 
The sale could fetch as much as US$500,000 but one asks why the 11-time Grand Slam singles champion finds himself in such a perilous economic position. 
His career tennis earnings - from winning 62 titles and from being the world's best player in the late 1970s and early 1980s - are estimated at more than $50 million. 
But a series of failed financial ventures - including a company that sold clothing under the Borg name - have left the Ice Man with no other option than to turn again to tennis, albeit through memorabilia sales. 
Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet reported that a creditor is planning to take legal action against Borg to the tune of $1.4 million. 
It's almost a quarter of a century since Borg shocked the tennis world by retiring from the circuit in 1982 at the age of just 26, complaining of burnout. 
That, you might say, was the Swede's first, big mistake - to walk away while still near his peak and with big money and endorsements starting to roll in. 
