The final brought about the match-up which everyone had hoped for, with Federer naturally out for revenge. And yet the Swiss metronome was to suffer the same fate as his predecessors, unable to find an answer to Nadal's heavy topspin and incredible athleticism. After 3 hours and 50 minutes, the Spaniard emerged victorious 6-2, 6-7, 6-3, 7-6, having made the world number one his 42nd consecutive victim on clay! All doubts were therefore dispelled as to whether "Rafa" was back to his best, and with the clay season just beginning, Nadal may well have a sackful of trophies before he even gets to Paris...

For the first time in the history of a Grand Slam, the men's and women's singles will commence the Sunday before the traditional fortnight. The French Open will begin on Sunday 28 May with twelve first-round matches (six men's, six women's) on the three main courts of the stadium: the Philippe-Chatrier, the Suzanne-Lenglen and Court N°1.

The new Benny-Berthet day

Traditionally contested the Sunday before the tournament, Benny-Berthet day will now be played a day earlier, on Saturday 27 May, coinciding with the last day of qualifying. The charity day will see the stars of the tournament pitted against each other in a series of exhibition matches between 12:00 and 19:00 on the Philippe-Chatrier, Suzanne-Lenglen and N°2 Courts. Ticket prices will be a one-off price of €17, with all profits going to the seven charitable associations affiliated with the event.

A chance to see the qualifiers

In another unprecedented development, the final round of qualifying will be broadcast on television, with Eurosport showing the top matches from the last day on Saturday 27 May. With so much at stake, these matches are traditionally dramatic affairs. Not least because results in qualifying determine the draw for the French Open.

A "new-look" draw

The draw for the tournament has been given a major face-lift. As with the Australian Open and the US Open, the draw will be made electronically rather than manually. Scheduled for Friday 26 May at 11:30 in the Roland Garros Tenniseum, proceedings will begin with an electronic draw of the non-seeded players before a famous face pulls out the 32 seeds.

Raising the stakes!

This year's Roland Garros will boast the biggest ever prize pool at a Grand Slam event, with the €14,265,800 on offer representing a 5.56 % increase since 2005 and 35 % since 2000. The 76th French Open will also award equal paydays to the men's and women's champions of €940,000!

