Nadia Petrova is peaking at the right time. After some amazing performances on clay courts on the American circuit, she has been sweeping her way up the world rankings and comes to the 76th French Open as one of the favourites.

Ironically, she actually prefers hard courts, but it was on the har-tru grey clay currently favoured in the US that Petrova recently had the most successful fortnight of her career. In April, the lofty Russian - she measures in at 1m78, or 5'10" - used her cannonball service to win first at Amelia Island and then in Charleston, the latter being her most significant title to date. Among the ten opponents she brushed aside were some genuine clay-court specialists, including Italy's Francesca Schiavone and Switzerland's Patty Schnyder. "Petrova has really come on," commented Schiavone. "She is a lot more consistent than ever she was."

Indeed, Petrova used to have a reputation for cracking under the pressure of big matches, but she has put all that behind her since the end of last season. In Linz in November, she won her first ever tournament on the circuit, after racking up four losses in as many final appearances up until that point. Once that particularly monkey was off her back, the girl with an impeccable sporting pedigree - her father Victor was a hammer thrower whilst her mother, Nadejda, won a bronze medal in the 400 metres at the Montreal Olympics - set about letting success breed success this season.

In Doha, she beat world number one Amélie Mauresmo, before reaching the quarter-finals at the Australian Open and then again in Miami. This run took Petrova up to 5th in the world after her victory in Charleston, and she can now be seen as one of the genuine contenders at Roland Garros. "I am really pleased with my early-season success on clay and with the two titles I won," she smiles. "I feel at home on clay and I've managed to move my game up to the next level. I really can't wait to get onto the red clay (at Roland Garros)." Having already reached the semi-finals in 2003 and 2005, Petrova has shown a liking for the French Open. Maybe 2006 will be her year.

In eleven attempts, many of which saw her considered among the favourites, Mauresmo has never got further than the quarter-final stage. She has often been overcome by the magnitude of the occasion, particularly when she steps out onto the Philippe-Chatrier court, where she has never won an important match. Since last autumn, however, things have been looking up for the French star, who is trained by French Fed Cup coach Loïc Courteau. Her successes in the Masters Series in Los Angeles and in particular at the Australian Open seem to have enabled her to overcome her inner demons. A carefree Amélie at Roland Garros will definitely be a force to be reckoned with. After all, she is number one in the world…


