Other Rules of Play Used in American College Tennis
As of 2003, in Division I tennis at the college level, a let service is considered playable. This rule change was made to prevent receivers from falsely claiming a valid service to be a let, which is a call that cannot be overruled. Thus, a service that hits the net before landing in the service box is a playable shot, and must be returned by the receiver. Otherwise, the receiver loses the point.
[edit]
Other Rules of Play Used in American High School Tennis
During high school tennis team matches players may have to follow a few different rules:
Pro set: Instead of playing best out of three sets, players may play one pro set. A pro set is first to 8 games instead of 6. All other rules apply.
Super tie-break: This is played sometimes after players split sets (Each wins one set). It decides who wins instead of a third set. This is played like a regular tie-break but you go to ten instead of seven.
No-ad: You play through the match without any ads. When the game is at deuce the receiving player has the option to choose what side of court (either the deuce side or the ad side) they want to receive the serve for the final game-deciding point. The first player or team to four points wins the game.
[edit]
Shots
A competent tennis player has eight basic shots in his or her repertoire: the serve, forehand, backhand, volley, half-volley, overhead smash, drop shot, and lob.
[edit]
Serve
Main article: Serve 
A serve (or, more formally, a "service") in tennis is a shot to start a point. The serve is initiated by tossing the ball into the air and hitting it (usually near the apex of its trajectory) into the diagonally opposite service box without touching the net. The serve may be hit under- or overhand.
Experienced players strive to master the conventional overhand serve to maximize its power and placement. The server may employ different types of serve:
•	Flat Serve 
•	Topspin Serve (Sometimes called a "Kick/Kicker" serve. Often times confused with the "American Twist" serve, since both types of serves are called "Kick/Kicker" serves.) 
•	American Twist/Twist Serve (Also, sometimes called a "Kick/Kicker" serve, which can confuse people, since "Topspin" serves are also called the same thing. Furthermore, this serve is often times confused with the "Topspin-Slice" serve as well.) 
•	Slice/Slider/Sidespin Serve 
•	Topspin-Slice Serve (Often times confused to be the same as the American Twist/Twist, though it's not. The serves are very different from one another.) 
•	Reverse Slice/Reverse Slider/Reverse Sidespin Serve 
•	Reverse Twist/Reverse American Twist Serve 
•	Reverse Topspin-Slice Serve 
A reverse type of spin serve is hit in a manner that spins the ball opposite the natural spin of the server, the spin direction depending upon right- or left-handedness.
Some servers are content to use the serve simply to initiate the point; advanced players often try to hit a winning shot with their serve. A winning serve that is not touched by the opponent is called an ace; if the receiver manages to touch it but fails to successfully return it, it is called a service winner.
[edit]
Forehand
Main article: Forehand 
For a right-handed player, the forehand is a stroke that begins on the right side of his body, continues across his body as contact is made with the ball, and ends on the left side of his body. There are various grips for executing the forehand and their popularity has fluctuated over the years. The most important ones are the continental, the eastern, and the western. For a number of years the small, apparently frail 1920s player Bill Johnston was considered by many to have had the best forehand of all time, a stroke that he hit shoulder-high using a western grip. Few top players used the western grip after the 1920s, but in the latter part of the 20th century, as shot-making techniques and equipment changed radically, the western forehand made a strong comeback and is now used by many modern players. No matter which grip is used, most forehands are generally executed with one hand holding the racquet, but there have been fine players with two-handed forehands. In the 1940s and 50s the Ecuadorian/American player Pancho Segura used a two-handed forehand to devastating effect against larger, more powerful players, and many females and young players use the two-handed grips today.
[edit]
