The success of Williams in an all-American final against Lindsay Davenport restored the women's trophy to US hands after Maria Sharapova's success for Russia in 2004. The previous five years had all gone the way of American women, with the Williams sisters, Venus and Serena, claiming two each and Davenport becoming the last champion of the 20th century.

On her way to Centre Court, Williams had to pass beneath the famous Rudyard Kipling quote in the All England Club's main hall about triumph and disaster "and treating those two impostors just the same". Certainly she flirted with disaster before claiming triumph in the shape of the aptly-named Venus Rosewater Dish and prize money of £600,000. She faced match point in the third set and half a dozen times stood just a couple of points from defeat, only to claw her way back to win 4-6, 7-6 (7-4) 9-7.

Perhaps the surprise of The Championships was the victory in the Men's Doubles of Stephen Huss and Wesley Moodie, who became the first qualifiers ever to capture the Wimbledon title in only their second tournament together. The Australian Huss and South African Moodie. defeated seeded opposition in five consecutive rounds, culminating in a 7-6 (7-4), 6-3, 6-7 (2-7), 6-3 over the American twins, Bob and Mike Bryan, who have now lost in the final of all three 2005 Grand Slams.

The Ladies' Doubles championship went to the Zimbabwe/South Africa pairing of Cara Black and Liezel Huber, who scored a surprisingly easy 6-2, 6-1 win over Svetlana Kuznetsova and Amelie Mauresmo, the Russian/French combination who were unseeded as a doubles pair but are among the leading lights of the women's singles rankings.

There was a popular victory in the Mixed Doubles for Mary Pierce, runner-up at the French Open and a singles quarter-finalist in here, and Mahesh Bhupathi. The French-Indian duo were the last of the trophy winners on the final day, completing a 6-4, 6-2 victory over the Ukraine's Tatiana Perebiynis and Paul Hanley of Australia.

There was disappointment for the 48-year-old Martina Navratilova in her bid to break Billie Jean King's record of 20 Wimbledon titles. Victory in either the Ladies' or Mixed doubles would have seen King's long-standing mark eclipsed, but Navratilova was beaten in the semi-finals of the Ladies' event and the quarters of the Mixed.

The Boys' Singles honours again went to France, with Jeremy Chardy defeating Holland's Robin Haase 6-4, 6-3, while the Girls' champion was a Pole, Agnieszka Radwanska. She beat Austria's lone female entrant at The Championships, Tamira Paszek, 6-3, 6-4.

