Maria walked away with the glory this time. But she knows to keep looking over her shoulder because Elena will be back. 
Maria Sharapova completed a deceptively comfortable 6-1 6-2 victory over Elena Dementieva in the all-Russian final of the WTA tournament at Indian Wells. 
But Dementieva will be heartened by her overall performance in this Tier 1 event, especially her remarkable semi-final in which she came back from 6-2 5-2 down to beat ex-world number one, Justine Henin-Hardenne. 
Without question, her 2-6, 7-5, 7-5 victory over the four-time Grand Slam champion from Belgium ranks amongst the finest matches of Dementieva's career. But the 3-hour marathon did take a physical toll the following day against Sharapova. 
The championship match between the 18-year-old Sharapova and the 24-year-old Dementieva was a battle between two quite different individuals. 
While they're both tall, blonde, from the same country and are strong baseliners, the similarities, more or less, end there. 
Florida-based Maria speaks with an American accent and is more Miami than Moscow. Her daring on-court outfits now overshadow the outrageous fashions of Serena Williams and she recently appeared in the swimsuit edition of America's Sports Illustrated magazine. 
You get the sense that Maria loves being in the spotlight and thrives on her Siberian Siren image. 
As for Elena, she's more girl-next-door than pin-up girl, yet has won many admirers with her natural beauty, charm and grace. 
Her tennis attire is sporty rather than sexy: instead of the Sharapova-style baby-doll nighties, Elena's outfits are sensibly styled for on-court comfort, although she still cuts a striking figure in her preferred colours of red and pink. 
She also has a strong, intellectual side that comes across with her thoughtful and measured answers during media conferences and interviews. 
If she wasn't playing tennis, she'd probably be a doctor like her grandmother or uncle. She lists chess as one of her hobbies and went to French Special Language school as a teenager before taking private English lessons during her first years on the tour. 
