What's the score?

Last year the Philippe-Chatrier and Suzanne-Lenglen courts were equipped with big screens while Court N°1 and six other courts also received new digital scoreboards. This technology has now been installed on all remaining courts over the winter.

"Everybody at the final"

Missed out on tickets for the men's and women's finals? Thanks to operation "Everybody at the final", you can now enjoy this unique moment in the Roland Garros Stadium. On Saturday 10 June, fans are invited to watch the finals of the Legends Trophy and junior doubles on the Suzanne-Lenglen Court from 11:00 before re-living the women's singles final on Court N°1 on big screen. The same format will apply on Sunday 11 June, with the finals of the junior singles and women's doubles on Suzanne-Lenglen Court followed by a replay of the men's singles final on big screen on Court N°1.


Rampaging World No. 2 Rafael Nadal has taken out the Barcelona Open title over compatriot Tommy Robredo, extending his winning streak on clay to 47 matches, the second longest in history.

It took the 19-year-old prodigy just two hours and 20 minutes to defend his title and flay his opponent 6-4, 6-4, 6-0 in the ATP’s first all countryman final this year. The win saw Nadal eclipse Bjorn Borg as owner of the second longest clay-court winning streak leaving the Spaniard only six short of Guillermo Vilas's all-time record of 53.

For the opening two sets Robredo held his own against his younger counterpart, however failed to capitalize on his own break point opportunities. This left top seed Nadal only a set from the title, and the defending champion sensed victory before raced away with the third set without surrendering a game.

Not only has the Spaniard extended his winning streak on his favoured surface, the win was his 12th straight final victory and kept in tact his perfect record in clay-court finals (11/11). Additionally he placed himself just one title within matching Bjorn Borg’s record of 16 titles won as a teenager.

Nadal became the first player to capture back-to-back titles at the event since Thomas Muster a decade ago. 
