And, instead of basing herself in the warmer climes of California, Florida or Monte Carlo, she still calls Moscow home and travels with her mother Vera on tour. 
Dementieva is proudly Russian, and unlike Sharapova, has represented her nation in Fed Cup, dating back to 1999, when, as a little-known 18-year-old, she upset Venus Williams in the final. 
Last year, she almost single-handedly took the Russians to Fed Cup success by winning both her singles matches in the final against France in Paris and then pairing with Dinara Safina to claim the deciding doubles. 
The obvious next step for Dementieva is to win a Grand Slam title after losing two Major finals to fellow Russians -- the 2004 French Open to Anastasia Myskina and the 2004 U.S. Open to Svetlana Kuznetsova. 
Dementieva has a poor 5-and-11 win/loss record in finals -- and is 1-and-4 when facing Russians in championship matches. Her renowned fighting ability is countered by an apparent inability to close out opponents on the big occasion. 
She's worked hard to improve her serve that was once considered amongst the worst on tour. 
Famously, she yelled: "I hate my serve!" during that 2004 Roland Garros final against Myskina as she produced 10 costly double faults. 
Three months later, I followed Dementieva's struggles at Flushing Meadows where she double-faulted 15 times yet courageously came from behind to beat Amelie Mauresmo in the U.S. Open quarter-final, overcoming a left adductor injury plus heat exhaustion. 
Dementieva admits that she tends to play better when the chips are down. 
Her wayward ball toss often meant a second serve that even some club players wouldn't be proud of. Dementieva always insisted the problem was more psychological than physical -- and that she was far more confident in practice -- yet last year she worked with big-serving ex-Wimbledon champion Richard Krajicek. 
The result was that Dementieva said she started to believe in her own strength and French Fed Cup captain George Govan remarked after October's final just how much the willowy right-hander's serve had improved. 
Now armed with a better serve, Dementieva, with her power-packed groundstrokes including her favourite crosscourt forehand and decent foot speed and mobility, is a more complete player. 
Her loss to Sharapova is a setback, but Dementieva heads towards the European claycourt season on a high. 
