There are some players who leave a gaping whole in the line-up if they have to miss out on a tournament. Marat Safin is one of those types - after six months away from the circuit due to a knee injury, the Russian made a come-back at the end of February, with one thing on his mind - Roland Garros.

Marat certainly looked a little different. Long hair off the court, and a samurai-style pony-tail on it. Scratch beneath the surface, though, and nothing seems to have changed. Six months waiting for his left knee to heal certainly did nothing to dampen his sense of humour. "I've grown my hair because my father's bald, and in any case, I thought that it was now or never," he said of his new look. He also seems to have lost none of his character and his competitive spirit. In Valencia, he refused to shake the hand of his Spanish opponent Nicolas Almagro after the latter had, according to Safin, celebrated his win in their semi-final a little too openly, particularly after the Russian had suffered a mild ankle sprain. Safin's racquets have also borne the brunt of some of his recent defeats...

One thing is certain, however - the former world n°1 was glad to get back on court. The 2006 season began for him in Dubai with an impressive victory over world n°5 and fellow Russian Nikolay Davydenko. "I really missed playing tennis," he confessed at the time. "I didn't expect to win against a player of that stature so soon. I was nervous about my knee, and I've still got a few mountains to climb before I get back to the top…" Since then, Safin has done even better still, overcoming Richard Gasquet in a titanic five-setter in the Davis Cup quarter-finals. The Russian, coached by Peter Lundgren, is usually his own severest critic, but he currently seems over the moon with his level of play. "If I carry on at this rate, I'll be back in the top 10 before you know it..."

The 2000 US Open and 2005 Australian Open winner is famous for his lack of patience, and despite talking about taking things one step at a time, he is itching to get back to his old level of competition. Safin has never made any bones about the fact that he would love to win at Roland Garros, and even if he is not a genuine clay court specialist, it is a surface he is very much comfortable on, having learned the tricks of the trade in Valencia. In the past, however, Roland Garros has always been a bridge too far for him, with a semi-final appearance in 2002 being his best performance to date. The French public do enjoy the Russian's fighting spirit, however, but he often uses up too much energy in the first week as he struggles to get into a rhythm. By the time the business end of the tournament comes around, he tends to find that he has too little left in the tank...

If he is in peak physical condition, however, Safin should be one of the favourites in Paris. Maybe Roger Federer and Rafael Nadal will have some competition after all… 

