But in the same period amongst the women, Monica Seles and Martina Navratilova are the only left-handed winners or finalists. And there hasn't been a female southpaw in the championship match at Roland Garros since 1992. 
Perhaps the emergence of Nadal will inspire men's and women's players -- with the same God-given gift -- to rise through the ranks. 
"Right-handers don't like playing against lefties," said Daniel Lim, veteran coach and former Singapore Davis Cup captain. 
"Their natural slice serve to the advantage court means an awkward backhand return for right-handers. And the right-hander's normal top-spin serve is to the left-hander's forehand." 
Lim was in Paris in 1977 when Argentine left-hander Guillermo Vilas gave one of the most dominant displays of claycourt tennis ever seen before beating American Brian Gottfried in the final, 6-0, 6-3, 6-0, for the first of his four Grand Slam titles. He reckons that Vilas was tennis's greatest left-handed player after Rod Laver. 
Many less gifted left-handed players have earned a handsome living in tennis by maximizing their natural advantage. 
Mark Woodforde made up for a lack of big serve and power with his intelligent court management, using subtle spin, slices and volleys to win 67 ATP doubles titles, 61 of them (including 12 Grand Slams) with fellow Australian Todd Woodbridge. And in singles, Woodforde won four ATP titles, broke into the top 20 rankings and even made a Grand Slam semi-final at the 1996 Australian Open. 
Before teaming up with Woodbridge, Woodforde enjoyed a brief yet successful doubles partnership with John McEnroe, winning the 1989 U.S. Open title. McEnroe was both a lefty and a serve and volleyer -- something that's almost impossible to find these days in professional tennis. 
These days, it's the potent left-right combination of the Bryan twins - Bob and Mike - that saw the American pair finish as the top-ranked men's doubles team in 2005. On occasions, they've even gone against conventional wisdom by having left-handed Bob playing the deuce court with right-handed Mike on the backhand side. 
So, as the European claycourt season unfolds, spare a thought for the lefties. Let's hope they don't emulate the dodo bird and become extinct -- because variety is the spice of the tennis life.
