The United States, represented by Jesse Levine and Michael Shabaz, captured the Boys' Doubles with a 6-4, 6-1 win over Samuel Groth of Australia and Britain's Andrew Kennaugh. The Girls' Doubles was won by Viktoria Azarenka of Belarus and Agnes Szavay of Hungary. They defeated the New Zealand-Romania pairing of Marina Erakovic and Monica Niculescu 6-7 (5-7), 6-2, 6-0.

The winners of the Ladies' 35 and Over Doubles were two former Grand Slam singles champions, Tracy Austin and Jana Novotna, while the Men's event went to Ellis Ferreira and Paul Haarhuis.

Johan Kriek and Kevin Curren won the Gentlemen's 45 and Over Doubles for the third year in a row, beating Peter McNamara and Paul McNamee in a third set tiebreak.

The total attendance for The Championships was 467,188.

Not that I mind, really. Along with Roger Federer, the kid is raising the stature of today’s game by putting himself in the company of its gods. Federer recently passed Bjorn Borg in number of weeks spent at No. 1; Nadal has now passed the Swede to move into second place in number of consecutive clay-court matches won, with 47 (he’ll go after Guillermo Vilas’ record 53 in Rome and Hamburg later this month). This is pretty scary company for a 19-year-old. Borg is the greatest clay-courter in history, a guy who won the French Open six times in just eight tries (he was an insane 100-6 at the French and Wimbledon for his career). Nadal, who’s nothing if not realistic, acknowledged that it’s still a bit early to hear his name mentioned with Borg’s. "You can't compare me to Borg, he was the greatest tennis player of all time," Nadal said. "I can't see myself winning five Wimbledons." (I wonder if that means he can see himself winning six French Opens.)

Nadal passed Borg with a dominating 6-4, 6-4, 6-0 performance against Tommy Robredo, a Barcelona native who won this tournament two years ago. Actually, “dominating” isn’t quite right. For a top player, Nadal rarely wins easily, at least in first sets, and yesterday the first two were tight. It’s a mark of his killer instinct and clutch play that he won those two sets while garnering just three break points. 

I’ve written a lot about Nadal recently, including an article for an upcoming issue of TENNIS Magazine about his budding rivalry with Federer, so I’ll save you the repetition and just mention a few things that came to mind as I watched the Barcelona final.

—Nadal is always the second guy out to start a match; he waits until his opponent is bouncing around anxiously at the baseline before he stops sipping his water and gets up from his sideline chair. I’ve mentioned this before, but I thought about it again yesterday as I watched Robredo wait impatiently for him—what would happen if Nadal's opponent refused to go out first? I can only assume that the match would never begin.

—While Nadal was never in trouble, I felt, not for the first time, that his level of play drops when he’s not playing Federer. He has said that he plays more aggressively against Fed, and on Sunday he was more conservative, particularly with his backhand, than hehad been in the final last week in Monte Carlo. Not that Nadal needs to change anything right now, but why not play more aggressively in every match? He might save some time.

