Rafael Nadal has it. So did Rod Laver, John McEnroe, Jimmy Connors and Martina Navratilova. Yet tennis greats like Pete Sampras and Roger Federer don't. 
What are we talking about? Is it a particular shot or serve, a secret training method or maybe one of the Grand Slam titles? 
Actually, none of the above. The right answer is left - as in left-handed. 
Nadal is one of a dying breed in tennis: a left-hander winning professional tournaments. The 19-year-old Spaniard is the only lefty in the Top 10 men's singles rankings. Switzerland's Patty Schnyder, at number 9, is the highest ranked left-handed female and the only one in the Top 20. 
Yet 30 years ago, the likes of Connors, McEnroe, Guillermo Vilas and Roscoe Tanner meant that roughly half of the game's best players were southpaws. That was a staggering proportion when you consider that less than 10 per cent of the population is born left-handed. 
Until a few years ago, the likes of Goran Ivanisevic, Marcelo Rios, Thomas Muster and Monica Seles ensured that lefties were well-represented in the upper echelons of both men's and women's tennis. 
But these days, you find yourself scratching your head and trying to think of top players who aren't right-handed. 
Apart from Nadal, other lefties on tour include Finland's Jarkko Nieminen, Spaniard Feliciano Lopez and big-serving veterans Greg Rusedski, the Canadian-born Brit, and Aussie Wayne Arthurs. Apart from Schnyder, France's Emilie Loit and Hungary's Melinda Czink are among other female left-handers earning a living on the WTA circuit. 
Being a left-hander gives Nadal an unquestionable advantage as he tunes his claycourt skills on the European circuit ahead of the defence of his French Open crown. 
Nadal already has the speed, athleticism and power of the game's elite. But his awkward, swinging serve and clever slice and spin shots that are unique to left-handed players give him an edge. 
There's no doubt that Nadal's distinctive shots are one of the reasons that top-ranked Roger Federer finds him such a difficult opponent. 
Nadal's victory over Federer in the 2006 Monte Carlo Masters Series final was his third in a row and fourth in five career meetings: a stunning statistic against the dominant player of our times. 
On the terre battue (red clay) of Roland Garros where the slow surface means it's so much harder to kill off points, the guile and variety of lefties can prove the difference. 
In the past two decades, Andres Gomez (1990), Thomas Muster (1996) and Nadal (2005) have all tasted glory while fellow left-handers Henri Leconte (1988), Petr Korda (1992) and Mariano Puerta (2005) made the French Open singles final. 
