After a slow start to the season due to an injury to his left foot, Rafael Nadal is now rounding nicely into form. His two tournament wins, in Dubai and perhaps more significantly at Monte Carlo, both saw him overcome Roger Federer in the final, making the 2005 French Open champion the hot favourite for a repeat success.

"I don't want to think about Roland Garros yet," said Rafael Nadal, but after successfully defending his Monte Carlo crown, he was the only one not casting his mind forward to the forthcoming French Open. In the space of two months, the left-hander from Manacor, Majorca, has catapulted himself back to the forefront of world tennis. Such an impressive comeback was, however, far from being a certainty when "Rafa" first swung a racquet in anger after his injury, on 13 February at the Open 13 at Marseille. This tournament marked his return some four months after he had crowned an incredible 2005 season with a win in the ATP Masters Series in Madrid.

Tendonitis in his knees and swelling in his left foot kept Nadal away from the Australian leg of the men's circuit, but the world number two managed to keep himself busy by flying to the US to have his latest tennis shoes custom-made by his equipment manufacturer. Nadal himself seemed concerned at the time that he would be able to hit the heights of the previous season, which saw him bag 11 titles, including Roland Garros and four ATP Masters Series wins.

42 consecutive victories

"My aim is to be pain-free and to finish the season in the top eight so that I qualify for the Masters Cup," Nadal stated during the Marseille tournament, adding: "After what I've been through, the number one spot will be virtually impossible this year. And in any case, it's currently occupied by the best player in history." Since then, the prodigious young Spaniard has won his 13th title in his second appearance of the year, on the cement in Dubai against none other than Roger Federer (2-6, 6-4, 6-4).

Nadal was a semi-finalist at Indian Wells, but later lost in the second round in Miami. After that came Monte Carlo, where for the first time since September 2005, "Rafa" returned to the clay courts which so suit his game. Argentina's 2004 Roland Garros winner Gaston Gaudio was on the top of his game in Monaco, but it was all he could do to take a set off Nadal in the semis, before the reigning French Open champion hit his stride and cantered home 5-7, 6-1, 6-1.

