Current world number ones Roger Federer and Amélie Mauresmo have every chance of conserving their status by the time Roland Garros comes around. A bigger challenge will await them when they get to Paris, however - namely winning the French Open for the first time…

Whilst they may have different factors driving them on, Switzerland's Federer and France's Mauresmo share a common goal - their individual holy grails can both be found buried in the clay of the prestigious Philippe-Chatrier court. Federer has been the undisputed star of the men's circuit for the past two years and is well on the way to fulfilling his ambition of going down in the annals of tennis as one of the all-time legends. For that to happen, of course, he will have to win the French Open. Roger (who incidentally pronounces his name in the English as opposed to the French way) holds a number of records already and has won the other three Grand Slam tournaments on any number of occasions (Australian Open 2004, 2006; Wimbledon 2003, 2004, 2005; US Open 2004, 2005). Victory in Paris - and he stands every chance of winning this year - would see him a little closer to going down in history as one of the greats.

Should Federer win at Roland Garros, he will have done the Grand Slam over two years, which certainly would be a remarkable performance. Since 1905, the Slam has only ever been achieved three times (within the same calendar year on all three occasions) - in 1938 by the American Donald Budge (who in fact won six consecutive majors, including Wimbledon and the US Open in 1937), and then in 1962 and 1969 by Australia's Rod Laver. It may also be worth pointing out that Federer's illustrious predecessors only had two different surfaces to contend with (clay and grass), whilst today's players have three (with hard court at the US and Australian Opens).

Federer has a very real chance of success this time around. Last year, the affable Swiss was a mere two matches away from victory before losing to the eventual champion, Rafael Nadal of Spain. He will, of course, be coming up against some clay court specialists, but when Federer is on his game, he is more than a match for anyone.

The same applies for Amélie Mauresmo. The world number one has the necessary attributes - technical, tactical and physical - to go all the way at Roland Garros. It is of course the French woman's dream to win her home tournament, and has been ever since she saw Yannick Noah do just that in 1983. Up until now, however, the dream has yet to become a reality…

