Tennis can be a gentle exercise for beginners and for the more advanced player a thorough work out. As physical activities increase your energy level it helps you to stay healthy, fending off germs and infections. Playing one set of tennis gives you 30 minutes of moderate physical exercise and plenty of fresh air. 
All you need to be able to do is hold a tennis racket. If you are getting children involved in tennis, then you will want to consider Mini Tennis for those that are under the age of eight. Start them off with a scaled down racket and foam balls on a small court. This is more of an introduction to the game. There should not be any pressure at all this should be fun and not be made to feel like work

There are Tennis associations and clubs all over the place. Make a call or go visit them and ask them questions about the cost for memberships. If you do not wish to play that often and you are a member of a health club use the club court. 

Check local public tennis courts. Go with a friend. Remember Tennis is not a game that you can play alone so if you are interested think about the level of your interest first before you invest in expensive equipment's for a sport that you may in the end not be that dedicated to.

Once you are sure that you want to play tennis even if it is only once or twice a week then you need to get the right gear. You first need to find a racket Find one that you will be comfortable with. Your first racket should not cost you $30.00 or less. You need not purchase and expensive gear to feel comfortable. Choose a racket that is the right size for you.

Wear comfortable clothing that is not to tight and not to loose. You do not want clothes that cut of your circulation when playing tennis any more than you want to be weighed down with clothes that are too loose fitting. Choose something made of material that absorb sweat.

Last but not least wear shoes and socks appropriate for playing tennis. Do not wear basketball shoes for playing tennis. Shoes with good shock absorbency will be more comfortable for you. Sock should made of a material that absorbs sweat and not make your feet sweat more. With the right gear there is no reason that one cannot enjoy the benefit of a game that provides moderate exercise and fun at the same time. 

